Contact
Nebbegårdsbakken 52, 2400København NV
40371757 (Mobile)
grusinator@gmail.com
www.linkedin.com/in/william-sandvej-hansen (LinkedIn)
Top Skills
Panel
.NET
Databricks
Languages
Dansk (Native or Bilingual)
Tysk (Limited Working)
English (Professional Working)
William Sandvej Hansen
Data Engineer
Copenhagen, Capital Region of Denmark, Denmark
Summary
I have been working on various projects ranging from backenddevelopment to data engineering to data analysis. Mostly withinengineering and energy sectors. I have a bit of GIS experience fromvarious projects, well supported by my education in data processingwithin geospatial and remote sensing diciplines. Now adays its hardto not get a bit of cloud and devops under the skin as well. I amquite adaptive in terms of skills and competences, and not afraid tostart out something that i might not know much about. In terms ofpersonality, according to the "Insights" profile test, i am the "HelpingInspirer". creative, energetic and currious type. Sometimes a bit tooquick and intuitive. But it has its qualities too.
Experience
Energinet
Data Engineer
December 2022 - October 2023 (11 months)
As a data engineer at Energinet, i was responsible for developing a dataproject collecting massive amounts of data from the energy island in denmark,from various providers. The main goal was to recieve, perform quality control,and deliver data to the developers wanting to bid on the project. In order toquality control and unpack these wide range of binary offshore sensor datafiles, we relied on spark and databricks to be able to scale, while at the sametime allow for the flexibility of the various data formats. Just to name a few,GDB, DFSU, segy, xtf etc. Some of these datasets had to be unpacked for QC,analytics and visualization purposes, so in order to support geospatial data inspark i used sedona (geospark) to be able to store data in delta parquet formatand to perform spatial partitioning on the dataset using geohashing, in order toimprove read performance.
Ørsted
Data Engineer
March 2020 - November 2022 (2 years 9 months)
Copenhagen Area, Capital Region, Denmark
Page 1 of 3
As a data engineer I have been developing a data validation componentas a part of our data pipelines, with configurable inputs for what to validate,developed in python, relying on pandas as data abstraction, integrated usingAzure Service Bus.I have also been involved with the data modelling in order to provide easy tounderstand and consume data for various analytics tools. MS Sql Server, Restapi. In order to do iterate faster when implementing the right data model, weused python, sqlalchemy and Sqlite, to implement a mock db, mimickingthe production environment, and to test the changes before implementing it,avoiding changes in api and data pipeline.I have also developed different data analytics and visualization tools inpython using streamlit, Panel, Dash and bokeh, that helps engineers to makeinterpretations based on the data.At Ørsted i have been using the SAFE framework for project management,Devops has been relying on Azure devops, Docker and K8S.
Netcompany
IT Consultant
November 2018 - November 2019 (1 year 1 month)
Københavnsområdet, Danmark
At Netcompany i have been working at big projects building custom ITsolutions with multiple integrations. The primary tools that i have been using asa backend developer was Oracle, Groovy, REST and a bit of Javascript. Forproject management and version control Jira and Git with SCRUM.
NIRAS
Softwareudvikler
September 2016 - March 2018 (1 year 7 months)
Allerød, Capital Region, Denmark
At Niras i have been developing geodata algorithms for data transformation,including processing of lidar data, and images. I have among other developedan image classifier that can identify buildings in spectral orthophotos. I have also developed a model that can based on lidar and gis road data,identify the height profile of the roadsides, and identify the need and cost forcleaning the roadside. This was developed in C# using Postgres, postgis, withparallel processing capabilities.
Page 2 of 3
At Niras i have also been developing various plugins for QGIS, using Qt andPython.
KK Wind Solutions
Engineer
March 2014 - August 2014 (6 months)
Ikast
At KK wind solutions I was hired for a project of a half year where I wasinvestigating the effort of switching out a communication chip for the IO boardsin the wind turbine control system. This was due to inducing flexibility inthe product configuration. This project involved programming the chip in C,investigating communication protocols as Ethercat profinet etc.
Det Tekniske Fakultet, Syddansk Universitet
Instructor
September 2013 - January 2014 (5 months)
Odense Area, Denmark
instructor in Electronics courses teaching basic analog circuit design.
VELUX
Internship Electronics
February 2013 - June 2013 (5 months)
Skjern - Denmark
During my time at Velux I developed a PCB for loading a solar panels. ThisPCB was meant for testing the durability of solar panels for the automatedVelux windows.
Education
Danmarks Tekniske Universitet
Master of Engineering - MEng, Earth and Space Physics andEngineering · (2014 - 2016)
Syddansk Universitet
Bachelor of Engineering (BEng), Electrical and ElectronicsEngineering · (2010 - 2014)
Vejle Tekniske Gymnasium
HTX, Science - Mathematics and Physics · (2007 - 2010)
Page 3 of 3